I am in Tromsø in Norway.
That's the Tromsø bridge,
and there is the beautiful ice sea cathedral.
Well, if you've watched my videos the last few days,
then you might have noticed something crazy
every time I am under artificial light.
And let's be honest: That's the way most of the time.
Because, even though it gets light here in the middle of the day,
we are in the Arctic Circle,
it is winter.
The sun does not rise above the horizon.
Mind you, when it gets light, this place is very beautiful.
In any case, you may have seen a bit of a weird effect,
if I make a slow motion video of that lamp post and the ground beneath it
you will see what I mean.
There is a kind of weird 'rolling' flashing light effect.
And the reason for that
is something you might know,
the difference between European and American electricity networks.
See, the European electricity grid runs at 50 hertz.
50 cycles per second.
That means the alternating current in the cables
changes direction,
a hundred times per second, 50 cycles
back and forth, back and forth.
And that means all these lamps that you see here
a kind of unnoticeable dim,
a hundred times per second.
Not enough so you can see it with the naked eye,
but the camera picks it up.
Well, okay, that is not a big problem
if your camera is running at the same speed as the lights.
The lamps run at 50 hertz,
British television runs at 50 hertz.
But unfortunately, I use an iPhone,
which is designed in the USA,
for the American electricity grid.
The American electricity grid has chosen to run at 60 hertz,
60 cycles per second,
so American television runs at 60,
or 30 frames per second.
So, the camera records at 30 frames per second,
the light pulses with 50 hertz,
those two do not run synchronously,
and so you sometimes get light, and sometimes dark.
But, why the rolling effect?
Well, before that
we need to understand the rolling shutter in a camera.
Or, in every modern camera.
Old film cameras do not do this,
logically, they only expose a picture to light
every time a frame passes.
But, no-no, not this.
THIS camera, and all modern cameras
walk, one line at a time, scrolling the screen along.
This means that it can take a fraction of a second
before the camera went from the top of the image to the bottom.
The result is this rolling effect.
Some of those lines were recorded when the light was fully on,
and some lines were recorded when the light was dimmed.
And that's the reason.
That is why you are kind of weird, artificial,
rolling light problem
when you film in Europe with an American device.
Of course, the easiest way to solve it is
that Apple would have an option for 25 frames per second,
but that would be much, too difficult for them ...
And THAT is something you may not have known.
[Translation: Niels de Groot]